TCD 2820: SC with Docker (#2014)
saucelabs/sauce-docs: docs/secure-connections/sauce-connect/setup-configuration/docker.md

## Running the Sauce Connect Docker Container

1. Pull the Sauce Connect Proxy Docker Image from the [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/saucelabs/sauce-connect).
   - To pull the latest version of Sauce Connect Proxy (recommended):
   ```bash
   $ docker pull saucelabs/sauce-connect
   ```
   - To use a specific version, add it as a tag:
   ```bash
   $ docker pull saucelabs/sauce-connect:4.8.0
   ```
    <details><summary>Supported tags</summary>
      - 4.9.0, 4.9.0-ubuntu-22.04, 4.9.0-alpine-glibc<br/>
      - 4.8.2, 4.8.2-ubuntu-22.04, 4.8.2-alpine-glibc, latest<br/>
      - 4.8.1, 4.8.1-ubuntu-22.04, 4.8.1-alpine-glibc<br/>
      - 4.8.0, 4.8.0-alpine-glibc<br/>
      - 4.7.1, 4.7.1-alpine-glibc<br/>
      - 4.7.0, 4.7.0-alpine-glibc<br/>
    </details>
2. To run the Sauce Connect Proxy Docker image, run the script below.

> ```bash

Reviewer: the format is off, code block should be indented.

$ export SAUCE_USERNAME="my-user"
$ export SAUCE_ACCESS_KEY="my-access-key"
docker run \
    -e SAUCE_USERNAME=${SAUCE_USERNAME} \
    -e SAUCE_ACCESS_KEY=${SAUCE_ACCESS_KEY} \
    --network="host" \
    -it saucelabs/sauce-connect
```

If desired, you can specify any additional [SC CLI arguments](/dev/cli/sauce-connect-proxy/).

:::note
The example above uses `--network="host"` docker option to allow Sauce Connect in the Docker container to access your local services in the host machine. This option does not work on MacOS and Windows. See [Connect from a container to a service on the macOS host](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/networking/#use-cases-and-workarounds) for more details.
:::

## Configuring Sauce Connect Proxy Using Environment Variables

It is convenient to configure Sauce Connect Proxy Docker via [environment variables](/secure-connections/sauce-connect/setup-configuration/environment-variables/#command-line-options-environment-variables) when it is used as a Gitlab service or [GitHub Action](https://github.com/saucelabs/sauce-connect-action).

> Below an example on how to configure Sauce Connect Proxy using environment variables. Note that the example uses 4.8.x specific options that could not work with the previous versions.

Author: ```suggestion
Below is an example of configuring Sauce Connect Proxy using environment variables. The example uses 4.8.x specific options that could not work with the previous versions.
```

1. Create a bash script `wait-for-sc.sh` that will ensure the pipeline only continues after Sauce Connect Proxy is fully connected and ready.

   ```bash title="wait-for-sc.sh"
   until [ "$(curl -s -o /dev/null -w ''%{http_code}'' localhost:8032/readiness)" == "200" ]
   do
       sleep 2
   done
   echo "SC ready"
   ```

1. Run Sauce Connect Docker container using the script below. It is important that you map port 8032 (that is, `-p 8032:8032`) so that the port is available to the host.

```bash
$ docker run \
    --detach \
    -e SAUCE_USERNAME=${SAUCE_USERNAME} \
    -e SAUCE_ACCESS_KEY=${SAUCE_ACCESS_KEY} \
    -p 8032:8032 \
    -t saucelabs/sauce-connect:latest \
    -i your-docker-tunnel
  $ ./wait-for-sc.sh
```

### Ready File

You can leverage the Sauce Connect Proxy [`--readyfile`](/dev/cli/sauce-connect-proxy/#--readyfile) flag to specify a file that will be created (or updated) when the proxy is ready.

1. Create a bash script `wait-for-sc.sh` that will ensure the pipeline only continues after Sauce Connect Proxy is fully connected and ready.

```bash title="wait-for-sc.sh"
until [ -f /tmp/sc.ready ]
do
    sleep 1
done
echo "SC ready"
```

> 1. Run Sauce Connect Docker container using the script below. You must mount a temporary folder (`-v /tmp:/tmp`) so that `wait-for-sc.sh` can detect when Sauce Connect is ready.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Run Sauce Connect Docker container using the script below. You must mount a temporary folder (`-v /tmp:/tmp`) so that `wait-for-sc.sh` can detect when Sauce Connect is ready.
```

> 1. Run Sauce Connect Docker container using the script below. It is important that you mount a temp folder (that is, `-v /tmp:/tmp`) so that `wait-for-sc.sh` can detect when Sauce Connect is ready.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Run Sauce Connect Docker container using the script below. You must mount a temporary folder (`-v /tmp:/tmp`) so that `wait-for-sc.sh` can detect when Sauce Connect is ready.
```

}
```

## Running the Sauce Connect Docker in the nginx Server

The `docker-compose.yaml` file below shows how to run Sauce Connect Docker in the nginx server.

The Sauce Connect Proxy sits adjacent to the `nginx:latest` instance: you can reach the nginx service from Sauce Labs by going to nginx (if you run it as is). You can also provide a name to the container with [container_name](https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/compose-file-v3/#container_name).

> `container_name: mockserver` is reachable from any app or website that tried to hit mockserver via HTTP: this is due to the nature of [how docker resolves container names](https://docs.docker.com/config/containers/container-networking/#:~:text=In%20the%20same,on%20that%20network) for any valid entries on that docker network.

Author: ```suggestion
If you were to name the container explicitly like `container_name: mywebserver` it would reachable from any app or website that tried to hit mockserver via HTTP: this is due to the nature of [how docker resolves container names](https://docs.docker.com/config/containers/container-networking/#:~:text=In%20the%20same,on%20that%20network) for any valid entries on that docker network.
```

> `container_name: mockserver` would be reachable from any app or website that tried to hit mockserver via HTTP: this is due to the nature of [how docker resolves container names](https://docs.docker.com/config/containers/container-networking/#:~:text=In%20the%20same,on%20that%20network) for any valid entries on that docker network.

Author: ```suggestion
`container_name: mockserver` is reachable from any app or website that tried to hit mockserver via HTTP: this is due to the nature of [how docker resolves container names](https://docs.docker.com/config/containers/container-networking/#:~:text=In%20the%20same,on%20that%20network) for any valid entries on that docker network.
```
